

This a model from the article:  
**Contributions of HERG K+ current to repolarization of the human ventricular action potential.**   
Fink M, Noble D, Virag L, Varro A, Giles WR. _Prog Biophys Mol Biol_ 2008 Jan-
Apr;96(1-3):357-76 [17919688](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17919688) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Action potential repolarization in the mammalian heart is governed by
interactions of a number of time- and voltage-dependent channel-mediated
currents, as well as contributions from the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger and the Na+/K+
pump. Recent work has shown that one of the K+ currents (HERG) which
contributes to repolarization in mammalian ventricle is a locus at which a
number of point mutations can have significant functional consequences. In
addition, the remarkable sensitivity of this K+ channel isoform to inhibition
by a variety of pharmacological agents and clinical drugs has resulted in HERG
being a major focus for Safety Pharmacology requirements. For these reasons we
and others have attempted to define the functional role for HERG-mediated K+
currents in repolarization of the action potential in the human ventricle.
Here, we describe and evaluate changes in the formulations for two K+
currents, IK1 and HERG (or IK,r), within the framework of ten Tusscher model
of the human ventricular action potential. In this computational study, new
mathematical formulations for the two nonlinear K+ conductances, IK1 and HERG,
have been developed based upon experimental data obtained from
electrophysiological studies of excised human ventricular tissue and/or
myocytes. The resulting mathematical model provides much improved simulations
of the relative sizes and time courses of the K+ currents which modulate
repolarization. Our new formulation represents an important first step in
defining the mechanism(s) of repolarization of the membrane action potential
in the human ventricle. Our overall goal is to understand the genesis of the
T-wave of the human electrocardiogram.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Fink M, Noble D, Virag L, Varro A, Giles WR.
(2008) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/b6d204fabafe50beac3d3e971a89f74b)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

